This document will serve as information of what heart rhythms will be displayed in the application.

These sounds were taken from the University of Michigan Heart Sound and Murmur Library. https://open.umich.edu/find/open-educational-resources/medical/heart-sound-murmur-library

The animation of the heart actually beating is the same for all of the rhythms. It only shows the beating animation of the heart, which includes the atria contracting and then the ventericles contracting.
The animation can be found in the NormalS1S2.ts file in the Aortic folder.


This section will show all rhythms that are displayed in the application. These rhythms apply to all auscultation locations.

	Rhythms:
		Normal S1 S2
		S3 Gallop
		S4 Gallop
		Mid-Systolic Click
		Early Systolic Murmur
		Mid Systolic Murmur
		Late Systolic Murmur
		Click Late Systolic Murmur

		Other options:
			S4 & Mid-Sys Murmur
			Systolic & Diastolic Murmur

Dev notes: There are other rhythms within this project that are not included within the application. This includes the two rhythms in the other options (shown above), and more can be found within the folders (specifically the Mitral and Aortic folders).
While these rhythms sound close to the original (taken from the library), we wanted to get a smaller and more general set to cover all auscultation locations. Therefore they did not end up in our final implementation of the application.



This section will discuss whether the rhythms were taken straight from the library (noted above) or if they were procedurally generated. If procedurally generated, rules for how we made the sounds will be shown.
The rules we setup is from our own research about what the rhythms should sound like from the different auscultation locations (this research will include help from AI and more information can be found in the Rhythm Auscultation Details excel sheet in the shared OneDrive folder).

	Auscultation Locations:

		Mitral (Apex):
			All Rhythms from this location were taken straight from the library.

		Aortic:
			Normal S1 S2 - from library
			The rest of the rhythms were procedurally generated
			Rules:
				S3 and S4 sounds can barely be heard from this region (or not heard at all)
				Click is barely heard hear (or not at all here)
				Early Systolic Murmur sounds similar to Mitral region so no changes
				Mid Systolic Murmur sounds a little louder in this location
				Late Systolic Murmur sounds quieter in this location
		

		Pulmonic:
			Normal S1 S2 - from library
			The rest of the rhythms were procedurally generated
			Rules:
			

		Tricuspid:
			All the rhythms were procedurally generated
			Rules:
				Murmurs are not has prominant as the mitral location
				S3 and S4 waves are not as prominant 
				S1 and S2 not as prominant and lower pitched
			